so last week I launched a project that I
was really excited about that we've been
working on for a while a wallpaper app
called panels and I made a lot of
mistakes along the way including the
fact that I didn't really explain
anything I didn't explain the UI what
was in it the point of the app and most
importantly why it had a freaking $50
price tier and so appropriately the
entire internet was very disappointed
and that's 100% on me I think that
that's part of what can happen when you
spend a long time building something
that you forget that other people don't
have that context but the point of this
video is not to make excuses it's to
actually break down and explain
everything so that you have it straight
from me now first of all and I'll get to
pricing in a second but just right from
the top a wallpaper app pretty Niche
thing right like most people just use
one of their own pictures as a wallpaper
or grab something cool from Google
that's something I've done many times
over the years so it's a very small
fraction of people who will actually
download an app let alone pay for a
wallpaper on their phone but the reason
I decided to try and make a wallpaper
app is because for years I've been
answering this one very common question
which is where' you get that wallpaper
like in videos and screens and devices
I'm reviewing where'd you get that piece
and so if I could always have some place
to point to that's on IOS and Android if
I could have a link in every description
then that would be awesome and if I can
leverage this incredible platform you
guys have given me to give way more
eyeballs to the artists that make that
art that I'm using I felt like that was
something worth building it's actually
an idea that's been floating around the
studio for years and we never really
knew where to start but then like a year
and a half ago a developer reached out
to us with a similar idea and we were
like all right this is great let's
collaborate and let's actually build
this thing so that's when we set off to
actually start making it so many months
ago myself and a developer team of two
along with some others on my team here
at the studio set off to build this
thing and this is what we ended up with
it's a fresh new app there's a few
hundred pieces in here by a bunch of
different handpicked artists that I've
used art from in the past plus a few
people in the studio here submitting
their own and then on any page if you
like it you can get it but you can also
click on the artist name and see more
from that person including their socials
so this is something specific that sets
it apart now again most people like 99%
99.9% of humans do not buy wallpapers
but there is a pretty awesome community
of artists making sick art sometimes
free sometimes a few bucks I know from
being in the thick of it for many years
I've personally gotten very used to
fking around and finding a sick
wallpaper or icon pack and go straight
to the source and it's a few bucks and
you download it straight from there and
we wanted to support both of those in
this app free art and paid art so this
is where a lot of the pricing
conversation comes in and this was a
misjudgment on my part like this is also
terribly communicated so I want to make
super clear this should be a free app
this should be a great free app
experience for the vast majority of
people who use it and I really dropped
the ball there and obviously I've never
made an app before I make videos and
review products but the people are right
like if I was reviewing this app I would
not have been very nice but this is this
is the two-sided coin of you know
deciding to not go build something in
public is if we're going to Dish it we
got to be able to take it too and so
there has been no shortage of tons of
actually constructive feedback that
we've taken in Taken notes on and sort
of started to turn into this app that we
had pictured in our heads we're sort of
dialing in what we actually want to make
but hey a lot of people have a lot of
questions now so for the sake of
transparency let me just go over the
biggest questions give you the answers
to those questions and then some of the
biggest updates that we've made so far
so number one pricing nobody wants to
pay that much for wallpapers totally get
it and there are so many reasons why we
failed on the price front so three steps
that we're taking here so first of all
just to bring it back a wallpaper app is
Niche paying for a wallpaper is even
more Niche and so like a subscription to
wallpapers is something that I think
less than 1% of 1% of people would ever
even consider so if you're looking at
panels and find yourself thinking this
seems crazy paying for a wallpaper
you're not wrong you are most people so
our first priority is we want to make
sure the free experience of the app is
great it's got to be way better so I'm
getting rid of those third party in feed
ads this is one of my misjudgments like
we just don't need those they feel cheap
and they're also harder to attribute to
specific artists anyway so now the feed
is clean and then all non-collection
wallpapers are available for free in
1080P no ads and if you want the full
res sometimes 4K sometimes 8K depending
on the art you can get a full resolution
version with a single 30- second ad to
try to offset server costs and pay
artists so if you really want it for a
like a high res tablet or a computer
wallpaper or some big screen in your
life then you can get all of it any of
it for free now even though
subscriptions are incredibly unpopular
uh we wanted to at least offer one that
made sense for the wallpaper power user
for how few of you actually exist uh so
first of all we have a new tier that is
two bucks a month which is everything I
just mentioned completely ad free and
full resolution everything across the
board so that means you never have to
see another ad never have to worry about
that and you always get the highest
resolution version no matter what screen
you're downloading for I think this is
really fair and should hopefully
continue to help pay to keep the app
running as well secondly we also offer
for those of you who are really into
this world like I said earlier we
support paid art uh collections is what
they're called so there are artists who
have really gone out of their way to put
a ton of work in on certain pieces
they've made made and have decided to
charge for those collections of pieces
totally cool there's a whole world of
those to so if you're using panels and
you jump in and decide to buy one single
collection for three four five bucks or
whatever that's cool but if there's a
bunch of these that you really like we
wanted to give people an option to just
unlock literally everything so that's
panels plus so you can subscribe and for
12 bucks it unlocks literally every
single collection in the whole app plus
anything premium that gets added while
you're a subscriber I think as of right
now that entire value of every artist's
paid packs if you paid them individually
is about 100 bucks even before any new
art drops so we settled that $12 because
that's around what it would cost if you
were purchasing more than two
collections straight up and then in case
you're someone who really loves to
change your wallpaper say you're a tech
reviewer or something or you have a
whole bunch of devices um then you know
you're already going to commit to this
for more than a few months we wanted to
give people the option to just pay for
panels Plus for a year and we made that
50 bucks so I think that Nets to the
equivalent of like roughly $4 a month
but that's the point of why that exists
and I understand that most people will
still find Forever the $50 number crazy
because it's for power users and it
seems crazy but if you happen to be one
of those power users then that's why
this tier exists so at least now you
know why and the third important point
is that we're splitting profits with the
artist 50/50 this is something I
mentioned in the original video and
there's a lot of initial discussion
around if this is fair I think it is I
base this on to be totally honest on
YouTube which actually I believe theirs
is 4555 but I did 50/50 to be simple but
the idea is the same which is that
hopefully this whole thing can bring a
bunch of extra eyes to the art the same
way YouTube drives to frankly there's
another thing I'm open to changing like
we've set it at that and now are
collecting as much information as we can
but I'll be in touch with artists about
that too I do think it's worth noting
that this is the main point of the app
like this is what I hope it can be which
is a platform for discovering new
artists and what they make and I haven't
told anyone this but I might as well the
artist agreements that we've made none
of them have any exclusivity at all in
them which means they can artists can
host the exact same art and stuff on
their own website it so if you find a
piece from watching a video or whatever
you go into panels and then you find
their socials and then go find a whole
bunch more stuff from that artist and go
buy a bunch of that without the 50/50
split I still consider that a win for
everyone involved so number two privacy
what is going on with all that tracking
great question a lot of people have been
rightfully concerned with the one
sheater that the App Store shows which
at launch showed this huge list of like
things the app might track which
included things like location and
tracking across apps another blunder by
us this was way too broad for clarity
this was not actually the set of
permissions that the app would ask for
the app would never once ask for your
location it's actually a list of things
that you as a developer provide to the
app store for things that the app May at
some point ask just to tell people ahead
of time just to be safe and we just
checked way too many boxes so for
transparency most of these boxes were
checked because of broad suggestion from
the ad service ad Mob We AED on the side
of just leaving them all there to be
safe but that was a dumb choice no other
way to say it so to be clear I do not
want your data actually you can use the
app without ever logging in like you
don't even need to give us so much as an
email address to actually use it and get
a wallpaper and save a wallpaper like
obviously you need to make an account to
sync across devices and stuff like that
but yeah that that was my B on the
disclosures and that's been fixed so
number three it's a bad app so okay once
we get past all of the rest of the
constructive criticism that the app has
rightfully gotten then you get to the
enormous variety of opinions about the
app itself and of course in the chaos of
launching like this and ending up like
in the top 10 of the App Store is we get
a lot of information about usage and
responses from people and we find all
kinds of bugs bugs were always expected
we're already on that but also for the
design itself My Philosophy actually was
to just try to make as close to the same
exact experience as possible between IOS
and Android same UI same feature set
same everything and some people like
that some people don't obviously a lot
of this is a matter of taste but some
people like especially want an Android
app to feel like to use the slideout
menus and to feel like a native Android
app versus iOS so that's that is
something I'm thinking a lot about and
there are also pieces of it like image
preview and onboarding that we want to
improve a lot uh one of the weirdest
things I saw was this rumor that we'
bought an old existing app and then
repackaged it and slapped my face on it
this is very false I actually found
where this came from basically people
saw that the panel's Twitter account
appears to be from 2021 that's literally
because we repurposed an old and
inactive Twitter account I hope you know
that that sounds as ridiculous to me as
it does to you but the other thing that
came up was that the app being filled
with AI generator art that's also not
true but I should explain how we got to
this so there are a few pieces that were
edited using AI like some of these
skyscraper Pieces by Chris hea are a
really good example where he's taken his
own images these photos of historic
buildings used AI trained on them to
generate new ones and then refine them
with Photoshop and they look so sick so
anyway I did respond to a tweet like
this but obviously that's my fault again
for not explaining everything super
clearly so we we've made sure to label
anything that has any AI involved at any
step in the process as AI enhanced so
that's very visible and if you're
curious about how they're using AI again
a lot of the social media Pages linked
to the artist they actually explain how
they're using some of this stuff which
is super cool so to answer the question
of how do we know that this app won't
someday just be filled with AI generated
slop that's the curated part so every
piece of art that goes into the app is
actually gone through us and so I can
personally promise that will never
happen but then aside from that I'm
obviously pretty biased but I think the
app itself is a pretty solid start
there's reviews out there already like
there's a review from zone of tech where
he Compares it to his own wallpaper app
and notes some cool features like visual
search that our app has that his doesn't
even though there's a lot of work we
still have to do on that it's cool to
see and his is also Awesome by the way
it has some interesting UI ideas and
nice haptic touches uh this channel
juxtaposed did a great review it's
actually like a like a constructive
facelift for a lot of UI elements and I
just want to say thank you for that
video like there's a lot of really
helpful stuff in there this is literally
one of my favorite videos of the week
and I subscribed after I watched it I
also want to improve the code to be much
more native to each OS um this should
help with just memory efficiency in
general but that's something I can put
on our developers but this is the stuff
that takes longer this takes more time
so this is something like we know most
of the hard hard work is ahead of us and
this app should be improving over time
clearly so then number four the future
which brings us to that thing I keep
saying which is never buy a product
based on the promise of future software
updates buy it for what it is today and
I'm never going to stop preaching that
that is still extremely true but the
irony is not lost on me that I've also
made a lot of references and promises
about the future of this app in this
video so I'll still say if you want to
grab a wallpaper or download this app
and check it out get it for what it is
today which is a wallpaper app like if
if you see a link in the description of
any video with a cool piece that you
like you can just jump over there and
that's that's what panels is today I
actually didn't want to make this video
Until we'd actually fixed and shipped
and gotten approved all the updates to
the app that I talked about in this
video so you can see now exactly what it
is today but I also want to shed light
on our plans for the future it's not
something you always get to see
and hey if those plans do materialize
then maybe you'll down the road pick up
that app for what it becomes we are
committing to doing weekly drops every
Friday of new art into the app so we
have a ton of stuff in que that we're
going to be going through that's super
sick and also if you are an artist and
want to be in panels I'll have a link to
a Google form below this video where you
can fill it out and then we can be in
touch I don't have a timeline for when
we're going to get through everyone but
we do have a lot of good stuff incoming
and we'll also regularly be updating the
app in the app store and the Play Store
I'm not going to like detail every time
there's a new update to it here but if
you want to follow that stuff you can
follow the panels account on Twitter and
that'll be when there's new art in the
app with the weekly drops and when
there's big new features and stuff like
that so yeah we may we may forever be
cursed by a one star rating and I know
that the comments and memes will
probably never actually end even though
some of them were pretty funny uh but at
least hopefully we can with enough
transparency earn your respect and your
trust back and ideally they people who
want the wallpapers now they got
somewhere to get
them truly thanks for listening thanks
for watching catch you guys in the next
one peace